StudyTool/SETUP.md, before:

# Hoosier Prep Portal - Setup Instructions

## Quick Start

### 1. Install Dependencies

First time setup requires installing both backend and frontend dependencies:

#### Backend (Python)
```powershell
cd server
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

#### Frontend (Node.js)
```powershell
cd web
npm install
```

### 2. Configure API Key

You'll need a free Gemini API key for AI-powered exam generation:

1. Get your API key at: https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey
2. Launch the app and navigate to Settings
3. Enter your API key and save

### 3. Run Setup Script (Required First Time)

Run the setup script to configure everything:

```powershell
.\create_shortcut.ps1
```

**Note:** The script will request Administrator privileges (needed to configure the custom domain).

This will:
- Configure `hoosierprep.local` as a friendly domain name (instead of showing IP addresses)
- Create a desktop shortcut with custom icon
- Set up automatic launch of both frontend and backend

After setup, the portal will be accessible at: **http://hoosierprep.local:5173**

### 4. Manual Launch

If you prefer not to use the shortcut, you can launch manually:

```powershell
.\start.ps1
```

This will:
- Start the Python backend server on port 8000
- Start the Vite development server on port 5173
- Open your browser to http://hoosierprep.local:5173
- Keep both servers running until you press any key to stop

## Asset Organization

All project assets are organized in the `/assets` folder:

- `HoosierPrepPortal.ico` - Windows icon for desktop shortcut
- `HoosierPrepPortal.png` - Web favicon and general branding
- `IURedLogo.svg` - Indiana University logo (red version)
- `IUGreyLogo.svg` - Indiana University logo (grey version)

The frontend references these assets from the centralized location, ensuring consistency across the application.

## Stopping the Application

To stop the servers:
1. Go to the PowerShell window running `start.ps1`
2. Press any key
3. Both servers will shut down gracefully

Or run:
```powershell
.\stop.ps1
```

## Troubleshooting

### Port Already in Use
If ports 8000 or 5173 are already in use, the start script will detect this and prompt you to stop existing processes.

### API Key Not Working
- Verify your API key is valid at https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey
- Ensure you're using a personal Google account (not IU account) for the API key
- Check that the key has proper permissions for Gemini models

### Database Issues
If you encounter database errors, the `exam.db` file may be corrupted. You can safely delete it and restart the app to create a fresh database.

## Development

For development with hot reload:

**Backend:**
```powershell
cd server
uvicorn main:app --reload --port 8000
```

**Frontend:**
```powershell
cd web
npm run dev
```

## Building for Production

To create a production build:

```powershell
cd web
npm run build
```

The built files will be in `web/dist`.

## Support

For issues, questions, or contributions, visit:
https://github.com/banknich-MSIS/StudyTool

Commit message:

Remove build scripts and related files for the StudyTool Electron application, including PowerShell and JavaScript build scripts, build status documentation, and various configuration files. Update frontend component labels for clarity, changing "AI Exam Creator" to "Exam Generator" and "Manual Creator" to "AI Assistant".

StudyTool/SETUP.md, after:

# Hoosier Prep Portal - Setup Instructions

## Quick Start

### 1. Install Dependencies

First time setup requires installing both backend and frontend dependencies:

#### Backend (Python)

```powershell
cd server
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

#### Frontend (Node.js)

```powershell
cd web
npm install
```

### 2. Configure API Key

You'll need a free Gemini API key for AI-powered exam generation:

1. Get your API key at: https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey
2. Launch the app and navigate to Settings
3. Enter your API key and save

### 3. Create Desktop Shortcut (Recommended)

For easy access, create a desktop shortcut:

```powershell
.\create_shortcut.ps1
```

This will create a "Hoosier Prep Portal" shortcut on your desktop with:

- Custom Hoosier Prep icon
- Automatic launch of both frontend and backend
- Proper working directory configuration

### 4. Manual Launch

If you prefer not to use the shortcut, you can launch manually:

```powershell
.\start.ps1
```

This will:

- Start the Python backend server on port 8000
- Start the Vite development server on port 5173
- Open your browser to http://127.0.0.1:5173
- Keep both servers running until you press any key to stop

## Asset Organization

All project assets are organized in the `/assets` folder:

- `HoosierPrepPortal.ico` - Windows icon for desktop shortcut
- `HoosierPrepPortal.png` - Web favicon and general branding
- `IURedLogo.svg` - Indiana University logo (red version)
- `IUGreyLogo.svg` - Indiana University logo (grey version)

The frontend references these assets from the centralized location, ensuring consistency across the application.

## Stopping the Application

To stop the servers:

1. Go to the PowerShell window running `start.ps1`
2. Press any key
3. Both servers will shut down gracefully

Or run:

```powershell
.\stop.ps1
```

## Troubleshooting

### Port Already in Use

If ports 8000 or 5173 are already in use, the start script will detect this and prompt you to stop existing processes.

### API Key Not Working

- Verify your API key is valid at https://aistudio.google.com/app/apikey
- Ensure you're using a personal Google account (not IU account) for the API key
- Check that the key has proper permissions for Gemini models

### Database Issues

If you encounter database errors, the `exam.db` file may be corrupted. You can safely delete it and restart the app to create a fresh database.

## Development

For development with hot reload:

**Backend:**

```powershell
cd server
uvicorn main:app --reload --port 8000
```

**Frontend:**

```powershell
cd web
npm run dev
```

## Building for Production

To create a production build:

```powershell
cd web
npm run build
```

The built files will be in `web/dist`.

## Support

For issues, questions, or contributions, visit:
https://github.com/banknich-MSIS/StudyTool
